Now what's this? Weren't we solving the problem of Vigenere Cipher

Actually, this concept is important to find the key length...

# So What is Collision Probability?
In collision probability we shift alphabets of our text by some value and then note down how many alphabets ended under same alphabet, If it happens we call it a "collision", then we note down number of collisions and divide it by total number of alphabets to get the probability of how likely collisions can occur.
```
T H I S I S A S A M P L E T E X T T O T E S T C O L L I S I O N S (Now we will shift the whole sentence by 3 places)
O N S T H I S I S A S A M P L E T E X T T O T E S T C O L L I S I
```
As we can see, we get 3 collisions, so the collision probability would be : 3 (number of collisions)/33 (total length)

# Why are we doing it?
Let's first take example of a coin toss:

Both head and tail are equally likely to appear, but if you toss a coin for let's say 7-8 times, can you say heads and tails will appear equal number of times? Ofcourse not!

But if toss is done a lot of times (maybe millions), then it will be 50-50.

It's exactly same with same with collision frequency.

If we apply collision frequency on large text it will tend towards the calculated probability...

# So Let's Calculate
Let's first assume a random text where all the alphabets have equal chances of appearing.

Then what will be collision frequency:

Let's first assume we move our text by 'n' places, and currently you are at a random place with random alphabet, now you have to check the alphabet which is n places before you,

So what's the probability of it being the same?

The answer is ofcourse 1/26 or 0.03846..

Now, let's look at english again:
```
frequency = {
        'E': 12.70, 'T': 9.06, 'A': 8.17, 'O': 7.51, 'I': 6.97, 'N': 6.75,
        'S': 6.33, 'H': 6.09, 'R': 5.99, 'D': 4.25, 'L': 4.03, 'C': 2.78,
        'U': 2.76, 'M': 2.41, 'W': 2.36, 'F': 2.23, 'G': 2.02, 'Y': 1.97,
        'P': 1.93, 'B': 1.29, 'V': 0.98, 'K': 0.77, 'J': 0.15, 'X': 0.15,
        'Q': 0.10, 'Z': 0.07}
```
Well... Yes! The probability of an alphabet to appear after n places is different depending upon the alphabet:

Let's say you are on random alphabet 'θ' and its frequency is p(θ)

The chances of you being on 'θ' is p(θ) and the chances of appearing of 'θ' n spaces before you is also p(θ)

So, the chances of both things happening is p(θ)*p(θ)

To find overall probability we will sum there values of (p(θ))^2 for all alphabets: Σ(p(θ)^2) where θ ranges from A-Z

Which comes out to be 0.065467

Wow! A huge difference from last time... Let's see how we can utilize this!

